DIGITAL PRESS 1994 CATALOG

CONTENTS OF THIS CATALOG:
Alpha/VAX/VMS, p. 2-8
Networking and Data Communications, p. 9-12
Windowing, p. 13-14 
Artificial Intelligence, p. 15 * 
Policy and Strategy/Organizational Design, p. 16-17
Software Development, p. 18-19
Computer Technology, p. 20
 Butterworth-Heinemann Computing Titles, p. 21-24
Author/Title Index, p. 25 * Title/Author Index, p. 26 * Order Form, p. 27-28


NEW AND RECENT TITLES FROM DIGITAL PRESS 

Goldenberg/Saravanan
Davis
Hobbs/England
da Cruz/Gianone
Redmond
Martin/Leben
Laverdure/Srite/
Colonna-Romano
Rost
Sherlock

OPENVMS AXP INTERNALS AND DATA STRUCTURES 
PAGES 2-3

VAXCLUSTER PRINCIPLES  
PAGE 4

DIGITAL'S CDD/REPOSITORY
PAGE 4

USING C-KERMIT 
PAGE 9

WORKING WITH TEAMLINKS
PAGE 9

NAS
PAGE 9

NAS ARCHITECTURE REFERENCE MANUAL
PAGE 10

X AND MOTIF QUICK REFERENCE GUIDE 
2/E, PAGE 13

USING DECWINDOWS MOTIF FOR OPENVMS
PAGE 13


A detailed treatment of the key architectural features of Alpha AXP systems.OpenVMS AXP Internals 
and Data Structures

Ruth E. Goldenberg and 
Saro Saravanan, 
both of Digital Equipment Corporation

This outstanding new book describes the internals and data structures of the OpenVMS AXP operating 
system Version 1.5 in vivid detail. Perhaps the most comprehensive and up-to-date description available for 
a commercial operating system, it is an irreplaceable reference for operating system development engineers, 
operating system troubleshooting experts, systems programmers, consultants and customer support 
specialists.

Some of the text and much of the book's structure are derived from its highly successful predecessor, 
VAX/VMS Internals and Data Structures: Version 5.2. The new work is divided into nine parts: 
Introduction; Control Mechanisms; Synchronization; Scheduling and Time Support; Memory Management; 
Input/Output; Life of a Process; Life of the System; and Miscellaneous Topics. Each of the 39 chapters is 
akin to a case study on the topic it covers, based on the depth and breadth of treatment. Although the 
descriptions are of the OpenVMS operating system for the Alpha AXP family of processors, the concepts 
are equally applicable to the internals of any modern-day multiprocessing operating system running on a 
RISC computer.

SAVE 20%
Place your order before June 1, 1994 
and qualify for the special 
pre-publication price of $120.00. 
Price after June 1, 1994 is $150.00.

Contents

Preface
Part I. INTRODUCTION
1.	System Overview
2.	I/O Architecture
Part II. CONTROL MECHANISMS
3.	Interrupts and Exceptions
4.	Hardware Interrupts and Machine Checks
5.	Software Interrupts
6.	Condition Handling
7.	System Service Dispatching
8.	ASTs
Part III. SYNCHRONIZATION
9.	Synchronization Techniques
10.	Event Flags
11.	Lock Management
Part IV. SCHEDULING AND TIME SUPPORT
12.	Time Support
13.	Scheduling
14.		Process Control and Communication
Part V. MEMORY MANAGEMENT
15.	Memory Management Overview
16.	Memory Management Data Structure
17.	Memory Management System Services
18.	Paging Dynamics
19.	Working Set List Dynamics
20.	The Swapper
21.	Pool Management
Part VI. INPUT/OUTPUT
22.	Overview of the I/O Subsystem
23.	I/O System Services
24.	I/O Processing
25.	Mailboxes
26.	Miscellaneous I/O Topics
Part VII. LIFE OF A PROCESS
27.	Process Creation
28.	Image Activation and Exit
29.	Translated Image Environment




30.	Process Dynamics
31.	Process Deletion
Part VIII. LIFE OF THE SYSTEM
32.	The Modular Executive
33.	Bootstrap Processing
34.	Operating System Initialization
35.	Error Handling
36.	Error Halt Processing
37.	Symmetric Multiprocessing
Part IX. MISCELLANEOUS TOPICS
38.	Logical Names
39.	Miscellaneous System Services
APPENDIXES
	System Processes and Privileged Images
	Use of Listings and Map Files
	SYSGEN Parameters
	Naming Conventions
	Data Structure Definitions
	Size of System and P1 Virtual Address Spaces
	Summary of AXP Systems
	Lock and Resource Use by OpenVMS Components
LIST OF ACRONYMS

June, 1994  hardbound  1,800 pages 
55558-120-X    $120.00*
*Price after June 1, 1994 is $150.00


An in-depth overview of VAXcluster technology - from an "applied theory" perspective.

VAXCLUSTER PRINCIPLES
Roy G. Davis, 
Digital Equipment Corporation

This in-depth exploration of the major components of the VMS operating system is ideal for computer 
professionals who need a thorough understanding of VAXcluster components and functionality to support, 
manage, and develop applications in a VAXcluster environment.  It:
*	Discusses the Systems Communications architecture that defines how components of a 
VAXcluster configuration exchange information with each other.
*	Covers interconnects, ports, and port drivers used to implement this communications architecture.
*	Deals with Digital Storage Architecture, and with controllers, storage devices, class drivers, 
servers, and protocols that implement this storage architecture.
*	Explains storage options commonly used in a VAXcluster configuration.
*	Explains process and system level VAXcluster synchronization mechanisms.
*	Covers cluster wide process services, downline loading VMS systems, centralized system 
management, disaster tolerance, and monitoring VAXcluster activity.

1993  paperbound  600 pages  55558-112-9  $49.95



A comprehensive introduction to the extensive capabilities offered by CDD/Repository-Version 5.0 - a 
data dictionary facility for the Open VMS Operating System.

DIGITAL'S CDD/
REPOSITORY
A COMPREHENSIVE GUIDE
Lilian Hobbs,
Digital Equipment Corporation
Ken England,
Consultant

There are few repositories in the marketplace today that offer the functionality and capabilities of 
CDD/Repository, and it is fast becoing the repository-of-choice in software development departments in 
many companies, software tool companies, and consultant firms.  This comprehensive guide focuses on 
Version 5.0 of CDD/Repository - an extremely sophisticated and powerful repository based on an object-
oriented approach.  This is an active distributed repository system that provides the functionality necessary 
for users to organize, manage, control and integrate tools and applications across their companies.  The 
repository simplifies application development by providing information management and environment 
management features.
CONTENTS
Repository Overview * The Architecture of CDD/Repository * Repository Administration * Creating the 
Environment * The Management of CDD/Repository Elements * Change Management * Tools that Use 
CDD/Repository * Customizing the Environment * DMU-The Original Dictionary Management Tool * The 
Future of CDD/Repository * Element Types References * Property Types References * Repository * Index

1993  paperbound  259 pages  55558-113-7  $34.95



The guide to the new 
Alpha system.

ALPHA ARCHITECTURE REFERENCE MANUAL
Edited by Richard L. Sites,
Digital Equipment Corporation

This is the authoritative reference on the new 64-bit RISC Alpha architecture of Digital Equipment 
Corporation.  Written by the designers of the internal Digital specifications, this book contains complete 
descriptions of the common architecture required for all implementations and the interfaces required to 
support the OSF/1 and OpenVMS operating systems.
CONTENTS:  Common Architecture * Basic Architecture * Instruction Formats * Instruction Descriptions * 
System Architecture and Programming Implications * Common PALcode Architecture * Console 
Subsystem Overview * Input/Output * Architected System Interface * OpenVMS Alpha Software: 
Introduction to OpenVMS on Alpha * OpenVMS PALcode Descriptions * Memory Management * Process 
Structure * Internal Processor Registers * Exceptions, Interrupts, and Machine Checks * DEC OSF/1 Alpha 
Software: Introduction * PALcode Instruction Descriptions * Memory Management * Process Structure * 
Exceptions and Interrupts * Appendix A: Software Considerations * Appendix B: IEEE Floating-Point 
Conformance * Appendix C: Instruction Encodings
1992  paperbound  600 pages  55558-098-X  $34.95



A guide to the latest version of ALL-IN-1 - for new and experienced users.

ALL-IN-1
MANAGING AND PROGRAMMING IN V3.0
Tony Redmond,
Digital Equipment Corporation

ALL-IN-1: MANAGING AND PROGRAMMING IN V3.0 assists both new and experienced ALL-IN-1 
system managers and programmers to make the best of ALL-IN-1 V3.0 - the biggest single release of 
ALL-IN-1 since V2.0 (1985):
*	How best to use the new features, functionality, and opportunities that Version 3.0 provides
*	How to upgrade smoothly to V3.0 - with minimum effort
*	A look at the exciting possibilities that the latest batch of desktop clients represent, and opinions 
on their deployment alongside IOS
CONTENTS
Introducing ALL-IN-1 IOS V3.0 * System Management - The Installation * Continuing with Management 
* The New File Cabinet * Electronic Mail, Workflow, and Other Applications * Improving ALL-IN-1's 
Diction * Playing around with Forms * The Servers * Customization Management * Extending 
Customization Management * Code Level Integration * Moving Ahead with ALL-IN-1 * Bibliography * 
Sample Procedures * Glossary

1993  paperbound  552 pages  55558-101-3  $52.95



A complete guide to ALL-IN-1 installation and customization that goes beyond available product 
documentation.

ALL-IN-1
A TECHNICAL ODYSSEY
Tony Redmond, 
Digital Equipment Corporation

Based on the author's extensive experience developing ALL-IN-1 subsystems and customizing their 
applications to specific customer sites, this handbook offers a far deeper treatment than the product 
documentation itself.  Addressed to the needs of system managers, application programmers, and anyone 
who might work with ALL-IN-1 on a technical level, the guide features real-world practical examples, 
figures, and tables to illustrate the many possibilities available to meet the customized requirements of 
individual installations and users.

1992  paperbound  551 pages  55558-086-6  $44.95



An invaluable guide for programmers and system managers to the best ways to move swiftly through the 
ALL-IN-1 code jungle.

ALL-IN-1
INTEGRATING APPLICATIONS IN V3.0
John Rhoton,
Digital Equipment Corporation

ALL-IN-1: INTEGRATING APPLICATIONS IN V3.0 helps programmers experienced in third generation 
languages to use code-level integration to:
*	Integrate non-Digital products and applications - which may be difficult to integrate using 
documented ALL-IN-1 features, integrated only by incurring significant perfor-mance overhead, or 
integratable without preservation of the ALL-IN-1 familiar look and feel
*	Build applications that surpass performance limitations
*	Access external data stored in any format
It gives system managers an overview of code-level integration, and diagnostic help for product installations 
- including coverage on relinking the ALL-IN-1 image.
CONTENTS
Introduction to Integration * An Architectural View * Programming on VMS * Message Symbols and 
Messages * Installed Functions * Building the Image * Site-defined Functions * Special Symbols * The Data 
Set Access Facility * Record Data Sets * Text Data Sets * Adding an Editor * Miscellaneous Topics * ALL-
IN-1 V3.0 Changes * VAX MACRO File for DSAB Definitions * Global Routines Global Variables * 
DSAB Field Abbreviations for VAX C * CMS Product Descriptions * Glossary * Index

1993  paperbound  265 pages  55558-102-1  $52.95



A must for anyone performing database procurement for evaluation/functions.

RDB/VMS
A COMPREHENSIVE GUIDE
Lilian Hobbs,
Digital Equipment Corporation
Ken England,
Consultant

Rdb/VMS is a relational database system that was developed by Digital for the VAX family using the VMS 
operating system.  It is one of a number of information management products that work together in an 
environment, enabling users to easily share information throughout an organization.  Based on Version 4.0 
of the Rdb/VMS system, this comprehensive introduction covers components, data definition and 
manipulation, storage structures, table access, transaction management, security, database integrity and 
restructuring, tuning and optimization, distribution, interoperability, the data dictionary, transaction 
processing, tools, application programming, and more.
1991  paperbound  352 pages  55558-073-4  $34.95



The initial reference material on operating system support for Alpha.

vms for alpha platforms
INTERNALS AND DATA STRUCTURES PRELIMINARY EDITION, VOLUMES 1, 2, AND 3
Ruth E. Goldenberg and Saro Saravanan, both of Digital Equipment Corporation

These cutting-edge volumes are the first publications to explain OpenVMS operating system support for 
Digital's new 64-bit Alpha AXP architecture.  Written for computer professionals who need detailed 
knowledge of Alpha platforms as early as it can be made available, they contain the most authoritative and 
timely information on the OpenVMS AXP operating system currently available.
These PRELIMINARY EDITION volumes were written concurrently with the development of the operating 
system and are up-to-date as of the time of publication.

Topics covered include:

Volume 1: I/O Architecture * Interrupts and Exceptions * Hardware Interrupts and Machine Checks * 
Software Interrupts * System Service Dispatching ASTs * Synchronization Techniques * Overview of the 
I/O Subsystem * I/O System Services * I/O Processing * The Modular Executive * Bootstrap Processing * 
Naming Conventions

Volume 2: Condition Handling * Time Support * Memory Management Overview * Memory Management 
Data Structure * Memory Management System Services * Process Creation * Process Deletion * Operating 
System Initialization and Shutdown * Error Handling * List of Acronyms

Volume 3: Event Flags * Scheduling * Process Control and Communication * Paging Dynamics * Working 
Set List Dynamics * Pool Management * Miscellaneous System Services * Mailboxes

Volume 1: 1992  paperbound  412 pages  55558-095-5  $30.00
Volume 2: 1992  paperbound  306 pages  55558-105-6  $30.00
Volume 3: 1993  paperbound  270 pages  55558-109-9  $30.00



Invaluable for any professional working with Digital equipment.

THE DIGITAL DICTIONARY
A GUIDE TO DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORPORATION'S TECHNICAL TERMINOLOGY, SECOND 
EDITION

Compiled by a committee from Digital - engineers, writers, and specialists - the latest edition of this 
indispensable guide includes nearly 4,500 new entries, twice as many pages as the first edition, and two new 
appendixes with guidelines to help you write readable technical text. It's an all-in-one glossary of technical 
terms, abbreviations, expansions, and acronyms for Digital products and functions - and for computing 
generally.
1986  paperbound  659 pages  93237682-7  $29.95



The only book on UNIX for experienced VMS users making the transition between the two systems.

UNIX FOR VMS USERS
Philip E. Bourne,
Columbia University

This unique book is for any computer professional making the transition from VMS to UNIX.  Each 
concept is illustrated with one or more examples comparing the way a task is performed in VMS and in 
UNIX.  You move in a logical sequence, progressing from fundamental concepts to advanced programming 
and networking.  Based on the Berkeley 4.2 version of UNIX, the text includes more than 150 interactive 
examples as well as appendixes providing command summaries and useful cross-reference tables, as well as 
a glossary.
1990  paperbound  368 pages  55558-034-3  $29.95



Takes up where VAX/VMS documentation leaves off.

VAX/VMS
WRITING REAL PROGRAMS IN DCL
Paul C. Anagnostopoulos,
Independent VAX/VMS Consultant

Find out how to use the Digital Command Language (DCL) to write programs - through the logical, 
hands-on method presented in this book.  DCL is the standard command language for VMS - and is a 
well-structured, general-purpose programming tool when used to best advantage.  Assuming a background 
knowledge of VMS, the book begins by describing the common features of DCL, then presents it as a 
programming language, including:
*	How to use DCL to write large applications
*	What the pitfalls of the language are, and how to avoid them
*	How to rapidly develop DCL procedures and modify them as requirements change
*	How to use paradigms to build more sophisticated programs
1989  paperbound  409 pages  55558-023-8  $29.95



The popular guide to VMS utilities and applications.

A BEGINNER'S GUIDE TO VAX/VMS UTILITIES AND APPLICATIONS,
SECOND EDITION
Ronald M. Sawey, Southwest Texas State University
Troy T. Stokes, Consultant

No matter what components you're using, the new edition of this popular resource will help you learn to 
perform simple and useful tasks on the VAX/VMS system - with confidence!  The book offers a hands-on 
introduction to the EDT and EVE screen editor programs, the DECspell spelling checker, WPS-PLUS, 
phone and mail utilities, VAX Notes, the DATATRIEVE database management program, the DECalc 
electronic spreadsheet, the BITNET network, and more.   Included are a wealth of lively examples, exercises, 
and illustrations - plus ≥quick reference≤ charts summarizing commands and operations at the end of each 
chapter.  Nine useful appendixes include additional detailed material.  This practical, easy-to-use guide is 
indispensable for anyone who wants to become a self-sufficient VAX user - whether your needs are 
administrative, instructional, or academic.
CONTENTS:  Introduction * Fundamental VMS Operating System Commands * The EVE Screen Editor 
Program * The DECspell Spelling Checker Program * The WPS-PLUS Word Processor Program * Micro 
Communication with VAX/VMS Systems * Electronic Communications Programs on VAX/VMS 
Systems * The DATATRIEVE Database Management Program * The DECalc Spreadsheet Program * Some 
Notes on VAX BASIC * Appendixes
1992  paperbound  399 pages  55558-066-1  $27.95



For new users - the comprehensive guide to VMS.

THE VMS USER'S GUIDE
James F. Peters, III, Kansas State University
Patrick J. Holmay, Analysts International Corporation

For new and nontechnical users of VMS, here is a comprehensive and up-to-date guide.  It introduces you to 
the operating system and the built-in functions of VMS, Version 5 - complete with hands-on, self-
teaching experiments and step-by-step instructions to improve mastery.  For more proficient users, the 
book serves as a quick look-up reference.  Featuring:
*	All about the system - from logging in to creating command procedures, with thorough 
discussions of files and directories
*	Both EDT and EVE editors, covered in detail
*	How to customize your working environment
1990  paperbound  304 pages  55558-014-9  $29.95



A fresh presentation of VAX/VMS operating system concepts.

VAX/VMS OPERATING SYSTEM CONCEPTS
David Donald Miller, 
Bemidji State University

Discover a practical new approach to understanding VAX/VMS operating system concepts.  Combining 
discussions of operating system theory with examples of its application in key VAX/VMS operating 
system facilities, this book provides a thoughtful introduction for application programmers, system 
managers, and students.  In addition, you'll learn how VAX/VMS system services can tap the power of the 
operating system to perform critical tasks on behalf of applications.  Each chapter begins with a discussion 
of the theoretical aspects of a key operating system concept - including generally recognized solutions and 
algorithms - followed by an explanation of how the concept is implemented, plus an example that shows 
the uses and implications of the approach.
CONTENTS:  An Introduction to Operating Systems * The Process * Scheduling and Context Switching * 
Paging and Memory Management * Process Synchronization * Process Data Sharing and Critical Regions * 
Security, Protection, and Privacy * Input/Output and Interrupts * Disks and Disk Files * History of Digital 
Operating Systems * Appendixes
1992  hardbound  550 pages  55558-065-3  $44.95



How to write high-quality professional applications on VAX/VMS.

WRITING VAX/VMS APPLICATIONS USING PASCAL
Theo de Klerk, 
Digital Equipment Corporation

This exciting book is the first to actually explain how to write high-quality professional applications on 
VAX/VMS.  With numerous programming examples to illuminate the text, it offers a clear, detailed 
methodology highlighting those aspects of VMS that every well-written application must address.  You'll 
find:
*	Full working program examples throughout, drawn from  real-life development situations
*	Thorough discussion of the VAX calling standard
*	Detailed discussion of how to use the many VMS system services and Run Time library routines
*	A practical approach based on actual experience and written specially from the programmer's point 
of view
1991  paperbound  748 pages  55558-067-X  $39.95



Takes a unique systems approach.

COMPUTER PROGRAMMING AND ARCHITECTURE
THE VAX, SECOND EDITION
Henry M. Levy, University of Washington
Richard H. Eckhouse, Jr., University of Massachusetts

Master the relationships between today's advanced operating systems and applications and the hardware that 
supports them.  Taking a unique systems approach, this completely revised and updated second edition of a 
classic shows you how.   Using the VAX as a detailed example, the first half of the book offers a complete 
course in assembly language programming.  The second describes higher-level systems issues in computer 
architecture.  Highlights include the VAX assembler and debugger, other modern architectures such as 
RISCs, multiprocessing and parallel computing, microprogramming, caches and translation buffers, and an 
appendix on the Berkeley UNIX assembler.
1989  clothbound  444 pages  55558-015-7  $39.95



Updated edition of the authoritative resource.

VAX ARCHITECTURE REFERENCE MANUAL
SECOND EDITION
Edited by Richard A. Brunner, 
Digital Equipment Corporation

≥The second edition of the definitive guide to the design of Digital's most popular computer family, the 
VAX ARCHITECTURE REFERENCE MANUAL,  further enhances its status as the bible of the 
machine's structure.... It contains the most comprehensive description of the VAX architecture to be found 
anywhere.... [Readers] will find this organized, well-indexed manual indispensable.≤ 
- DEC Professional
Every knowledgeable VAX programmer and architect will want to acquire this resource that Digital's own 
engineers depend on.  From the Micro-VAX II to the VAX 9000, it spans the complete range of hardware 
and software issues and includes important new material covering the VAX shared-memory model and new 
vector processing extensions.
1991  paperbound  560 pages  55558-057-2  $49.95



Most authoritative, complete description of the VAX/VMS operating system.

VAX/VMS INTERNALS AND DATA STRUCTURES
VERSION 5.2
Ruth E. Goldenberg and Lawrence J. Kenah, both of Digital Equipment Corporation

Experts who have been directly involved in engineering, teaching, troubleshooting, and supporting the 
VMS operating system since its creation bring you this totally revised edition of this landmark reference.  
Comprehensive and convenient, the book focuses on the kernel of the VAX/VMS Version 5.2 operating 
system: process management; memory management; the I/O subsystem; the mechanisms that transfer 
control to, from, and among these; and the system services that support and complement them.  Written for 
professionals using VMS who wish to understand the components, mechanisms, and data structures, the 
book reflects every change to the VAX/VMS operating system through Version 5.2.  An all-new detailed 
technical index and hundreds of data structure diagrams make the contents more accessible and easy to use.
BRIEF CONTENTS: Introduction * Control Mechanisms * Synchronization * Scheduling and Time Support 
* Memory Management * Input/Output * Life of a Process * Life of the System * Miscellaneous Topics * 
Appendixes
1991  clothbound  1427 pages  55558-059-9  $124.95



Add this to your VAX/VMS library.

VMS FILE SYSTEM INTERNALS
Kirby McCoy,
Digital Equipment Corporation

For software specialists, system programmers, applications designers, and other computer professionals, 
here is a welcome in-depth study of the VMS file system, Version 5.2.  You'll find it helpful in 
understanding the data structures, algorithms, interfaces to, and basic synchronization mechanisms of the 
VMS file system - that part of the operating system responsible for storing and managing files and 
information in memory and in secondary storage.  The book is also fascinating as a case study of the VMS 
implementation of a file system.
Topics include the Files-11 On-Disk Structure, volume structure processing (including the handling of both 
on-disk and in-memory data structures), system-wide caching algorithms, clusterwide coordination 
techniques, and the I/O subsystem - including the extended $QIO processor (the Files-11 XQP).
1990  paperbound  460 pages  55558-056-4  $49.95



A complete description of Digital's Network Applications Support (NAS) architecture.

NAS ARCHITECTURE REFERENCE MANUAL
Leo F. Laverdure, Patricia Srite, and John Colonna-Romano, all of Digital Equipment Corporation

Designed for anyone interested in learning about the NAS architecture - including application developers, 
technical consultants, Independent Software Vendors (ISVs), Value-Added Resellers (VARs), and Digital's 
Integrated Business Units (IBUs) - NAS ARCHITECTURE REFERENCE MANUAL provides 
information on the NAS services and the key public interfaces supported by each service.
*	Part I introduces NAS and provides overview information on the NAS services
*	Part II provides detailed information on the NAS services, the key interfaces for those services, and 
information on how the services support the NAS pervasive attributes
CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION TO THE NAS ARCHITECTURE * Introduction to NAS * Pervasive Attributes * 
NAS Interface Subsets * II. NAS SERVICES * Interacting with the User * Communication with Other 
Applications * Controlling Application Execution * Accessing Data * Performing Complex Computations * 
Managing Networks, Systems, and Applications * NAS System Interface (SI) * Application Frameworks * 
APPENDIXES: NAS Multiplatform Vendor Support * NAS and the Windows Open Services Architecture 
(WOSA) * Glossary * Index

1993  paperbound  564 pages  55558-115-3  $34.95



A practical guide for integrating your PCs MicrosoftÆ WINDOWSÅ graphical environment into 
enterprise-wide networks.

WORKING WITH TEAMLINKS
Tony Redmond, 
Digital Equipment Corporation

WORKING WITH TEAMLINKS is a practical guide to Digital's office system for the Microsoft Windows 
graphical user environment.  Its thorough coverage will help experienced and inexperienced users, 
programmers, and system implementers realize the benefits while avoiding the pitfalls of using PCs in an 
integrated multivendor office system.
The book shows how the TeamLinks File Cabinet works, how TeamLinks mail flows, how to streamline 
business processes with the TeamRoute document-routing system, and how to integrate applications in a 
TeamLinks environment.  It discusses the problems of implementing a PC-based office system and of 
managing the process of migration from ALL-IN-1 IOS, Digital's minicomputer-based office system.  An 
appendix documents TeamLinks internal codes and presents other interesting information.
A companion diskette contains many sample programs that can be used as a base for your own solutions.
CONTENTS
TeamLinks: An Overview * Getting Started with TeamLinks * The TeamLinks file Cabinet * TeamLinks 
Mail * TeamRoute * Converters, Viewers, and File Formats * Electronic Conferencing * Customizing 
TeamLinks * Planning the Implementation * Migrating from ALL-IN-1 * Appendix * Glossary * 
Bibliography * Trademarks * Index

1993  paperbound  446 pages (includes diskette)  
55558-116-1  $44.95



An introduction to the architecture AND the software and middleware of NAS.

NAS
DIGITAL'S APPROACH TO OPEN SYSTEMS
James Martin, 
James Martin Associates 
Joe Leben, Leben, Inc.

NAS (Network Applications Support) is both a comprehensive architecture and set of software products 
designed to provide a framework that makes it possible for applications developers to enhance those 
characteristics of computing applications that promote interoperability, application distributability, and 
application portability among applications that run on Digital's computing platforms as well as those from 
other vendors, such as IBM, Hewlett-Packard, SunMicrosystems, Apple Computer, and others.
For managers, executives, and information systems staff, NAS describes both types of NAS products - 1) 
those that comprise a set of development toolkits that provide services directly to computing applications; 
both Digital applications and user-written applications.  This important new class of software, called 
middleware, operates as an intermediary between application programs and the underlying hardware/software 
platform, and 2) those that build on the NAS middleware to provide services directly to the end users of 
computing services.
CONTENTS:  Prologue. The NAS Version * I. NAS and Open Systems * II. NAS Pervasive Attributes * 
III. NAS Services * IV. Related Software Technologies * Cohesion and Case Tools * Appendixes

1993  paperbound  412 pages  55558-117-X  $34.95



An introduction and tutorial - 
as well as a comprehensive reference - 
on ALL of C-Kermit's capabilities.

USING C-KERMIT
Communication Software for OS/2 Atari ST, UNIX, OS-9, VMS, AOS/VS, Amiga
Frank da Cruz and 
Christine M. Gianone, 
both of Columbia University

USING C-KERMIT describes the new release, 5A, of Columbia University's popular C-Kermit 
communication software - the most portable of all communication software packages.  Available at low 
cost on a variety of magnetic media from Columbia University, C-Kermit can be used on computers of all 
sizes - ranging from desktop workstations to minicomputers to mainframes and supercomputers.  The 
numerous examples, illustrations, and tables in USING C-KERMIT make the powerful and versatile C-
Kermit functions accessible for new and experienced users alike:
*	Serial communication, direct or dialed
*	TCP/IP and other network communication
*	Automatic dialing, supporting many types of modems
*	A wide variety of communication options
*	Terminal connection
*	Efficient, error-free Kermit file transfer
*	International character set conversion
*	A simple, consistent, and intuitive command language with built-in help
*	Command and initialization files
*	Command macros and a powerful, easy-to-use script programming language

1993  paperbound  514 pages  55558-108-0  $34.95



For new and seasoned BITNET users alike.

BITNET FOR VMS USERS
Michael A. Moore, 
Logical Designs, Inc. and Ronald M. Sawey, 
Southwest Texas State University

The first book to cover BITNET exclusively, this volume addresses the needs of those who have never used 
a national computer network, as well as those who are familiar with accessing BITNET from the VMS 
operating system.  Comprehensive in coverage, it details the many aspects of using BITNET - from 
electronic mail to searching remote databased to carrying on RELAY conversations with other users around 
the world.  Appendixes provide specific programs and listings of the more popular mailing lists, digests, 
and electronic magazines.

1992  paperbound  161 pages  55558-094-7  $25.95



A book/disk package for gathering and sending electronic information around the world - with your PC 
and MS-DOS Kermit.

USING MS-DOS KERMIT
CONNECTING YOUR PC TO THE ELECTRONIC WORLD, SECOND EDITION
Christine M. Gianone, Columbia University

USING MS-DOS KERMIT is a book/disk package designed to help both technical and non-technical PC 
users alike to link their IBM PCs, PS/2s, or compatibles to other computers and data services - e.g., Dow 
Jones News/Retrieval, MCI Mail, databases like BBS, DIALOG or TYMNET, and any mainframe - 
throughout the world.  Based on the author's close involvement with development and distribution of the 
Kermit transfer protocol, the guide supplies easy-to-follow, step-by-step instructions, meticulously 
compiled tables, and at-a-glance information on important areas.  The latest version of MS-DOS KERMIT 
is included with the book and provides:
*	communication support for serial ports, modems, and PC networks - Novell, AT&T, IBM, 
TCP/IP, DECnet, and many more
*	DEC VT320, VT220, VT100, and other terminal emulations, with screen rollback and capture, 
colors, printer control, and flexible key mappings, plus Tektronix graphics
*	reliable transfer of text and binary files
*	international character sets, including Cyrillic text file transfer
*	a powerful script language for automated operations
*	an easy-to-use dialing directory

1992  paperbound  345 pages (includes diskette)  
55558-082-3  $34.95



THE definitive tutorial/reference on the detailed specification of the Kermit file transfer protocol.

KERMIT
A FILE TRANSFER PROTOCOL
Frank da Cruz, Columbia University

This authoritative, all-in-one introduction, manual, and complete reference shows readers - at all levels of 
technical expertise - how to use Kermit to transfer diverse data between different computer systems and 
data communications environments.  Using tutorials, case studies, and examples of actual Kermit codes, it 
provides instructions for basic use and a detailed description of the Kermit protocols:
*	file management through protocols
*	command referencing and extended features
*	telecommunications protocols

1987  paperbound  379 pages  932376-88-6  $29.95



The first book-length introduction to one of the fastest growing LAN standards on the market today.

FDDI
AN INTRODUCTION TO FIBER DISTRIBUTED DATA INTERFACE
Wendy H. Michael, 
William J. Cronin, Jr., and 
Karl F. Pieper, all of Digital Equipment Corporation

Based upon the primer that received a 1991 Award for Excellence from the Society of Technical 
Communications (STC), FDDI: AN INTRODUCTION TO FIBER DISBRIBUTED DATA INTERFACE 
is the first book devoted to this new high-speed, high-bandwidth standard.  A concise and thorough technical 
introduction to the subject, it covers all aspects of the FDDI standard - from its protocol specifications to 
its implementation and management in real-world, large-enterprise, local area networks.  The book is 
written and designed for rapid comprehension by computer systems managers, telecommunications 
managers, and communications professionals who make decisions regarding networks for their 
organizations.  The FDDI technology and applications are extensively illustrated, but without mention of 
Digital's FDDI products.  An extensive glossary defines key networking, LAN and FDDI terms.
CONTENTS:  FDDI: A New LAN Standard * FDDI: A LAN Built to the OSI Model * FDDI Technology: 
PMD STANDARD * FDDI Technology: PHY Standard * FDDI Technology: MAC and LLC Standards * 
FDDI Technology: SMT Standard * FDDI Technology: How it Works * The Network: Structured Cabling * 
The FDDI Network: Topology * FDDI Components: Concentrators * FDDI Components: SAS and DAS * 
FDDI: LAN Interconnection Devices * Network Management: A Global View * Integrating LANs: LAN 
Comparisons * Integrating LANs: Implementing FDDI * Glossary * Index

1992  paperbound  209 pages  55558-093-9  $17.95



Your map through the network jungle.

THE USER'S DIRECTORY OF COMPUTER NETWORKS
Edited by Tracy L. LaQuey, Cisco Systems

Here's how to track down virtually every network available to academics and researchers.  This new book, 
with its detailed compilation of host-level information, provides everything you need to locate resources, 
send mail to colleagues and friends worldwide, and answer questions about how to access major national and 
international networks.  Extensively cross-referenced information on ARPANET/MILNET, BITNET, 
CSNET, ESnet, NSFNET, SPAN, THEnet, USENET, and loads of others is all provided.  Included are 
detailed lists of hosts, site contacts, administrative domains, and organizations.  Plus, a tutorial chapter 
with handy reference tables reveals electronic mail ≥secrets≤ that make it easier to take advantage of 
networking.
1990  paperbound  630 pages  55558-047-5  $35.95



From the authorities on information processing.

DECNET 
PHASE V
AN OSI IMPLEMENTATION
James Martin,
James Martin Associates
Joe Leben,
Leben Incorporated

≥This book is the important landmark we've all been waiting for: the comprehensive overview of Digital's 
Phase V architecture!≤ 
- 	Marshall Rose, PSI, Inc., and author, THE OPEN BOOK: A PRACTICAL PERSPECTIVE ON 
OSI
Broaden your understanding of how large networks are designed with this introduction to the concepts 
surrounding Digital Network Architecture.  This useful book blends an OSI tutorial with a complete look at 
how OSI technology is used in a Digital computer network.  You'll gain useful insights into OSI and the 
process of OSI standardization as well as implementation - all presented in a straightforward, easy-to-
follow style.
CONTENTS:  The Future of Networking * Part I: The Digital Network Architechture * Network 
Architectures * The OSI Reference Model * The Digital Network Architecture * Part II: DNA Functional 
Layers * The Physical Layer * The Data Link Layer * The Network Layer * Network Layer Protocols * 
Network Layer Routing * The Transport Layer * The DNA Phase V Session Control Layer * OSI Upper-
Layer Architecture * Part III: Network Applications * DNA Applications * OSI Applications * Part IV: 
Related Architectures and Mechanisms * Distributed Computing Services * The Naming Service * Network 
Management * X.25 Access * Part V: Data Link Layer Protocols * HDLC, SDLC and LAPB Data Links * 
DDCMP Data Links * Local Area Network Data Links * CSMA/CD and Ethernet * Fiber Distributed Data 
Interface * Bridge and Extended LAN Architecture * Appendixes: ISO Standards for the OSI Model * DNA 
Phase V Architectural Specifications
1992  Clothbound  572 pages  55558-076-9  $49.95



A look at how ten American colleges and universities bridged the gap between computing, administrative, 
and library organizations.

CAMPUS STRATEGIES FOR LIBRARIES AND ELECTRONIC INFORMATION
Edited by Caroline Arms 

Detailed case studies from ten American colleges and universities will prepare you to make better plans and 
decisions for an electronic library, integrated information management system, or unified information 
resource.  You'll find models and guidelines covering reference services,  latest philosophies and strategies, 
management and organization issues, delivery mechanisms, and more.
1990  clothbound  404 pages  55558-036-X  $34.95



A hands-on encyclopedic directory of specific networks and conferencing systems that encompass millions 
of users across every continent.

THE MATRIX
COMPUTER NETWORKS AND CONFERENCING SYSTEMS WORLDWIDE
John S. Quarterman, Texas Internet Consulting
With Forewords by Tracy L. LaQuey, Vinton G. Cerf, and Frank da Cruz

This complete, central source lets you tap into the worldwide information-sharing network of engineers, 
scientists, and researchers - no matter where you live or work.  It's a hands-on encyclopedic directory of 
specific networks and conferencing systems that encompass millions of users across every continent!
Following a useful overview, you can look up 
specific systems, their interconnections and uses, history, funding, standards and services - all organized 
country-by-country for your convenience.  Clearly drawn maps and hundreds of references help you easily 
connect to the global matrix.
1990  paperbound  719 pages  55558-033-5  $49.95



A hands-on account of the design, implementation, and performance of Project Athena.

MIT PROJECT ATHENA
A MODEL FOR DISTRIBUTED CAMPUS COMPUTING
George A. Champine, Digital Equipment Corporation

Project Athena at MIT has emerged as one of the most important models to date for next-generation 
distributed computing in an academic environment, and this book is the first to describe this landmark 
project.  Pioneered by MIT in partnership with Digital and IBM, Project Athena is distinguished by its 
magnitude and its reliance on workstations, each providing the same user interface regardless of architecture, 
and each sharing the same programs and data through a high-speed electronic network.  Based on thousands 
of pages of reports and the author's own experience, this important book lets you in on the design, 
implementation, and performance of Project Athena - now a production system of networked workstations 
that is replacing time-sharing (which MIT also pioneered) as the preferred model of computing at MIT.  The 
book is organized in four parts, covering management, pedagogy, technology, and administration.  
Appendixes describe deployment of Project Athena systems at five other schools, provide guidelines for 
installation, and recommend end-user policies.
1991  clothbound  282 pages  55558-072-6  $28.95



NOW IN PAPERBACK!
The definitive networking reference.

TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF DATA COMMUNICATION
THIRD EDITION
John E. McNamara, Stratus Computer Incorporated 

Long considered the definitive work among networking references, this book covers the spectrum of data 
communications technology.  It presents the latest information on layered protocols, fast and error-
correcting modems, smart multiplexers, digital transmission (T1), packet-switching, and ISDN.  You'll 
also find an expanded discussion of local area networks, an introduction to the popular Kermit file transfer 
protocol, information on the EIA-530 specification, and updated material on communication LSI circuits.
McNamara provides you with a practical approach to understanding communications systems, starting from 
a simple asynchronous interface called a UART and proceeding through more intricate problems of data 
communications system design.  You'll learn about communication lines and interface standards (EIA-232 
to EIA-530), modems and modem control, error detection, communication protocols, digital transmission 
systems, integrated services, and local area networks.  If you're designing a system, purchasing hardware or 
software, or simply expanding your knowledge, this book is indispensable!

1988  paperbound  383 pages  55558-111-0  $32.00



A nontechnical explanation of how local area networks work, what they do, and how you can benefit from 
them.

LOCAL AREA NETWORKS
AN INTRODUCTION TO THE TECHNOLOGY
John E. McNamara, Stratus Computer Incorporated 

This concise book provides an objective introduction to local area networks - how they work, what they 
do, and how you can benefit from them.  It outlines the pro's and con's of the most common configurations 
so you can evaluate them in light of your own needs.  You'll also learn about network software, with 
special emphasis on the ISO layered model of communications protocols.

1985  paperbound  165 pages  932376-79-7  $29.00



A convenient one-volume source for the most pertinent information on Xlib, X Toolkit Intrinsics, and the 
OSF/Motif programming 				             libraries.

X AND MOTIF QUICK REFERENCE GUIDE
SECOND EDITION 
Randi J. Rost,  
Kubota Pacific Computer, Inc.

Arranged in five sections - X Protocol Reference, Xlib Reference, X Toolkit Reference, Motif Reference, 
and General X Reference - and organized alphabetically with thumb tabs for quick and easy reference - the 
X AND MOTIF QUICK REFERENCE GUIDE provides complete descriptions of routines and user-
accessible data structures, including:
*	Xlib subroutines and macros
*	X Toolkit Intrinsics routines
*	Motif routines
*	and all of the Motif Widgets.
The Second Edition has been updated to reflect new functionality in both X Window System Version 11, 
Release 5, and OSF/Motif Version 1.2, including:
*	Routines and Xlib to support color management system
*	New routines on Xlib to better provide support for internationalization and localization.
CONTENTS
Preface * Protocol Request Codes * Predefined Atoms * Event Names and Masks * Keysym Encoding * Xlib 
Display Information Macros * Xlib Image Format Information Macros * Xlib Screen Information Macros * 
Xlib Keysym Classification Macros * Xlib Color Management Macros * Xlib Extension Support Macros * 
Xlib Error Values and Descriptions * Xlib Routines * Xlib Data Types * X Toolkit Intrinsics Routines * X 
Toolkit Intrinsics Compatibility Routines * X Toolkit Intrinsics Data Types * X Toolkit Intrinsics Errors 
and Warnings * Motif Routines * Motif Data Types * Motif Widgets * Motif Widget Hierarchy * Common 
Color Names * Standard Cursor Symbols

1993  paperbound  398 pages  55558-118-8  $24.95



For new and experienced VMS users alike.

USING DECWINDOWS MOTIF FOR 
OPENVMS
Margie Sherlock,
Digital Equipment Corporation

USING DECWINDOWS MOTIF FOR VMS is designed to help new VMS DECwindows users explore 
and apply DECwindows techniques and features, and to provide experienced DECwindows users with 
practical information about the Motif interface, ways to customize environments, and advanced user topics.  
VMS DECwindows Motif is based on MIT's specification for the X Window System, Version 11, Release 
4 and OSF/Motif 1.1.1.
CONTENTS
GETTING STARTED WITH DECWINDOWS * Introduction * Opening and Closing DECwindows * 
Interacting with DECwindows * Performing Common Tasks * Using Session Manager * Using File View * 
II. CUSTOMIZING YOUR DECWINDOWS ENVIRONMENT * Customizing Session Manager * 
Customizing Menus and Menu Bars * Customizing File View * Customizing the Window Manager * III. 
ADVANCED USER TECHNIQUES * Using Hyperapplications * Running Applications Across the 
Network * Changing the Startup Environment * Sharing Customization Files * Using Task Messages * 
APPENDIXES * Using DECwindows with a Keyboard * Understanding Files, Directories, and Devices * 
Troubleshooting Guidelines * System Messages * DECwindows X Windows System Resources * Index

1993  paperbound  363 pages  55558-114-5  $34.95




A technical reference covering every aspect of the sample server developed by the MIT X Consortium.

THE X WINDOW SYSTEM SERVER
X VERSION 11, 
RELEASE 5 
Elias Israel, 
Praxsys Technologies
Erik Fortune, Silicon Graphics Computer Systems

Using examples, guidelines, and tutorials, as well as material on theory and practice, this comprehensive 
reference provides essential information to knowledgeable X users who want to learn about the basic 
interactions between client and server - including developers who want to port, extend, tune, or test a 
server.
*  Part I, ARCHITECTURE, discusses the structure of the sample server, including the server's major data 
structures and their interactions, the flow of control within the server, how the server handles input devices 
and events, how the server maintains the window tree, and how it keeps graphics context up to date with 
drawables.
*  Part II, PORTING AND TUNING, explains in detail the process of porting the server to new display 
hardware or a new operating system, and discusses strategies for tuning an existing server.
*  Part III, WRITING EXTENSIONS, describes the server extension mechanism, its interface, and the 
design and implementation of new extensions.

1993  paperbound  534 pages  55558-096-3  $45.95



Conforms to Release 5 -
four books in one!

X WINDOW SYSTEM
THE COMPLETE REFERENCE TO XLIB, 
X PROTOCOL, ICCCM, XLFD, X VERSION 11, 
RELEASE 5 THIRD EDITION
Robert W. Scheifler, 
MIT X Consortium

Written by the experts who originally designed and created the X Window System, this Third Edition is a 
major revision of the definitive reference describing each standard specification from the MIT X 
Consortium.  It conforms to the latest release: X Version 11, Release 5.  With this latest edition
in hand, software developers and others can now take advantage
of the significant new functionality in Release 5.  And, in addition to fully integrating the important new 
features of this latest release, the original text has been significantly revised for clarity and easier access.  
Instructive diagrams, a detailed glossary, and a comprehensive subject-oriented index further enhance the 
book's overall value.
*	Part I, Xlib - C Language X Interface , describes the lowest level C language X programming 
interface to the X Window System.  Essential for all X programmers, even those using higher level toolkits 
such as X Toolkit Intrinsics.  
*	Part II, X Window System Protocol, details the precise specification of the X protocol semantics.
*	Part III, Inter-Client Communications Conventions Manual, discusses the conventions that govern 
X inter-client communication.
*	Part IV, X Logical Font Description, describes the conventions for font names and font properties 
in the X Window System.

1992  paperbound  1,000 pages  55558-088-2  $49.95



A quick and thorough introduction to Motif programming.

MOTIF PROGRAMMING
THE ESSENTIALS ... 
AND MORE
Marshall Brain,
North Carolina State University

Here is a straightforward, easy-to-understand introduction to Motif application development, covering both 
basic and advanced features of graphical user interfaces as implemented under Motif.  Even though you may 
have little or no experience with X or other window programming environments, this useful guide will ease 
you into Motif programming smoothly and quickly.  Using simple examples and explanations, it shows 
you how to design and build graphical applications with Motif in a reasonable amount of time.  By the end 
of the book, you'll be familar with all of the Motif widgets as well as the process of application design in 
Motif, the basic capabilities of the X and Xt layers, and the X drawing model.
CONTENTS:  Introduction * Analyzing a Motif Program * Resources * Callbacks * Manager Widgets * 
Menus * Dialogs * Tic-Tac-Toe Application * The mkill Application * The Text Widget * Other Motif 
Widgets * Resource Options * Customized Dialog Boxes * Motif Internals * The X Layer * Drawing * 
Conclusion * Appendixes

1992  paperbound  601 pages  55558-089-0  $29.95



Indispensable for all programmers.

X Window System Toolkit
The Complete Programmer's Guide and Specification
Paul J. Asente, Adobe Systems Incorporated
Ralph R. Swick, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Written by the two leading designers of the X-Tool
kit, this is the authorative guide to Version 11, Release 4 of the X Window System Toolkit.  It's 
organized in two useful parts - a programmer's guide and a specification.  You'll learn how to use 
the various features as well as how those features operate.
*	The Programmer's Guide, complete with over 100 pages of programming examples, illustrates 
how to use the X Toolkit to write applications and widgets.  Each chapter contains both an application 
writer's section and a widget writer's section.
*	The Specification  describes the capabilities more succinctly and precisely.  It offers sufficient 
detail for a programmer to create a new implementation.

1990  paperbound  967 pages  55558-051-3  $44.95



The defacto standard -
a must-have for all Lisp programmers.

COMMON LISP
THE LANGUAGE,
SECOND EDITION
Guy L. Steele Jr.,
Thinking Machines Corporation

In this greatly expanded edition of the defacto standard, you'll learn about the nearly 200 changes already 
made since original publication - and find out about gray areas likely to be revised later.  Written by the 
Vice-Chairman of X3J13 (the ANSI committee responsible for the standardization of Common Lisp) and 
co-developer of the language itself, the new edition contains the entire text of the first edition plus six 
completely new chapters.  They cover:
*	CLOS, the Common Lisp Object System, with new features to support function overloading and 
object-oriented programming, plus complete technical specifications
*	Loops, a powerful control structure for multiple variables
*	Conditions, a generalization of the error signaling mechanism
*	Series and generators
*	Plus other subjects not part of the ANSI standards but of interest to professional programmers.
Throughout, you'll find fresh examples, additional clarifications, warnings, and tips - all presented with 
the author's customary vigor and wit.  

1990  paperbound  1029 pages  55558-041-6  $39.95



A hands-on guide.

PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE ENGINEERING
CREATING SUCCESSFUL COMMERCIAL EXPERT SYSTEMS
Richard V. Kelly Jr.,
Digital Equipment Corporation

Find out what actually works (and what doesn't) in the development of commercial expert system 
applications - based on the author's decade of experience in building expert systems in all major areas of 
application for American, European, and Japanese organizations.  Focusing on actual tested procedures, this 
how-to book offers practical methods for initiating, designing, building, managing, and demonstrating 
successful expert systems.  You'll discover engineering programming techniques, useful skills for 
demonstrating expert systems, practical costing and metrics, guidelines for using knowledge representation 
techniques, and solutions to common difficulties in design and implementation.
CONTENTS:  Introduction * Frequently Asked Questions * Prospecting * Beginning a Project * Paradigms 
and Purposes * Knowledge Acquisition * Knowledge Representation * Costing, Metrics, and Specification * 
Knowledge Engineering Techniques * Common Problems * Demonstrating an Expert System * Appendixes

1991  paperbound  212 pages  55558-070-X  $28.95



For the experienced professional.

UNDERSTANDING CLOS
THE COMMON LISP 
OBJECT SYSTEM
Jo A. Lawless, 
Lucid, Inc.
Molly M. Miller,
Ascend Communications, Inc.

For the professional Lisp programmer, this important book is an introduction to programming in the 
Common Lisp Object System.   This object-oriented system - an extension of Common Lisp - 
incorporates the concepts of classes, generic functions, methods, multiple inheritance, and method 
combination.  Complete with code examples, the book has been adapted directly from the X3J13 Document 
88-002R, submitted to the X3J13 Committee in June 1988.
CONTENTS:  An Introduction to CLOS * Classes, Instances, and Slots * Generic Functions and Methods * 
Inheritance * Object Creation and Initialization * Modification of Classes and Instances * Metaclasses * 
CLOS Constructs * Appendix

1991  paperbound  192 pages  55558-064-5  $26.95



How to use information technology to gain the competitive edge.

INFORMATION IN THE ENTERPRISE
IT'S MORE THAN TECHNOLOGY
Geoffrey Darnton and 
Sergio Giacoletto, 
both of 
Digital Equipment Corporation

This non-technical book examines the role of information in the broader business enterprise - how to use 
it to gain competitive advantage and to re-design business processes for greater efficiency.  Going beyond 
the technology itself, it offers concrete suggestions on how to construct extensively integrated information 
systems.  And it describes both the opportunities and the risks that may result from the use of information 
technology.  Avoiding any bias toward top-down definitions and decompositions in strategic planning, the 
book is organized in three parts:
*	An Executive Brief presenting themes and recommendations
*	A description of the authors' experiences and insights on defining and building information 
infrastructures - at Digital and other large enterprises
*	An expanded case study - literature, theory, and how to extend the formal approaches
CONTENTS:  Part I: Executive Brief * Themes and Visions * Recommendations for Management * Part II: 
Digital Experience * Evolution of a Model: 1983-1990 * Systems Architecture * Business Architecture * 
Organizational Impact * Part III: Enterprise Wide Information Infrastructures * Information Technology and 
Systems * The Information Management Challenges * Information, System, and Architecture * Information 
and IT Infrastructures * Appendixes * Acronyms and Abbreviations

1992  clothbound  318 pages  55558-091-2  $34.95



Cut time and expense without sacrificing quality.

ENTERPRISE NETWORKING
WORKING TOGETHER APART
Ray Grenier and 
George Metes

Focusing on work environments in which knowledge workers use electronic networks and networking 
techniques to access, communicate, and share information, this book develops strategic and practical 
approaches that distributed organizations can use to succeed and compete.  You'll explore how such groups 
can decrease the time required to create quality products and services - even when their work teams are 
geographically and culturally dispersed, or ≥Working Together Apart.≤  With a foreword by organizational 
expert Edgar H. Schein of MIT's Sloan School, this book will be indispensable for managers and planners 
seeking innovative ways to build the capabilities necessary for prosperity in this complex and rapidly 
changing world.
CONTENTS:  Introduction * Overview * Assumptions and Realities * Capability Based Environment * The 
Capable Organization * Valuing Information and Knowledge Sharing * Enterprise Networking * Enterprise 
Networking Applications * Enterprise Networks: Anatomy and Physiology * Enterprise Network 
Management: An Architecture and Process * Simultaneous Distributed Work * Simultaneous Distributed 
Work: Goals and Processes * Simultaneous Distributed Work: Continuous Design and the Quest for Quality 
* Simultaneous Distributed Work in Action * Futurework: An Interview * Epilogue * Appendixes

1992  clothbound  260 pages  55558-074-2  $29.95



FIFTH GENERATION MANAGEMENT  INTEGRATING ENTERPRISES THROUGH HUMAN 
NETWORKING
Charles M. Savage, Digital Equipment Corporation
≥Book of the Year: this year's honors go to Charles Savage for Fifth Generation Management.  Savage 
joins a select few ... who exquisitely explain tomorrow's bizarre organizational arrangements, where 
hierarchies are leveled and the imagery of networks and spider webs butts out yesterday's pyramids.≤ 
-Tom Peters, Co-author of IN Search of Excellence
Explore the shift from steep top-down management to human networking, as companies with second-
generation management attempt to absorb fourth- and fifth-generation technologies, like computer-integrated 
manufacturing (CIM) and computer-integrated enterprises (CIE).  This provocative yet readable book looks 
into the assumptions, values, and ways of relating in the workplace that must change as companies move 
beyond the ≥technology wall≤  into the future.
1990  clothbound  267 pages  55558-037-8  $29.95



Benefit from the practices of the best logistics managers.

LOGISTICAL EXCELLENCE
IT'S NOT BUSINESS 
AS USUAL
Donald J. Bowersox,
Michigan State University
Patricia J. Daugherty, Cornelia L. Droge, Richard N. Germain, Dale S. Rogers

One of the nation's top authorities on logistics management presents a focused interpretation of research 
findings to help managers improve logistical competency within their organizations.  Zeroing in on the 
best practices of successful logistic managers - and well supported by statistical evidence - this handbook 
provides a sequential model as well as extensive coverage of Elecronic Data Interchange in the logistics 
process.  You'll find out why logistics must play an increasingly critical role in overall corporate strategy 
in the coming years, and why its managers must learn to better manage change.  Special emphasis is placed 
on the development of strategic alliances to increase corporate speed and quality.  Throughout the eight 
chapters, an action-oriented case dialogue facilitates interest and ease of reading.
CONTENTS:  The Setting * Change is Everywhere * Logistics 1990's Style * Assessment * Moving the 
Mountain * The Keys to Success * Developing Strategic Alliances * The Day After Success * Appendixes

1992  clothbound  246 pages  55558-087-4  $29.95



Selecting and using software to tackle critical manufacturing problems.

SOLVING BUSINESS PROBLEMS WITH MRPII
Alan D. Luber,
Digital Equipment Corporation

Here's practical advice for managers on how to take advantage of an MRP II software system to plan and 
monitor your manufacturing, marketing, finance, and engineering resources.  Each chapter focuses on a 
specific problem - such as material shortages, high inventory, or poor quality - and explains possible 
causes plus the solutions provided by MRP II packages.  Find out about the advantages and drawbacks of 
MRP II (as well as other systems), how to evaluate features and select the right system, and how to use it 
to solve pressing business problems.
CONTENTS:  The Material Shortages Problem * The Inventory Problem * The Quality Problem * The 
Customer Service Problem * The Productivity Problem * The Cash Management Problem * Appendixes

1991  clothbound  333 pages  55558-058-0  $35.95



With a Foreword by Ken Olsen.

DIGITAL AT WORK
SNAPSHOTS FROM THE FIRST THIRTY-FIVE YEARS
Edited by Jamie Parker Pearson, Digital Equipment Corporation

DIGITAL AT WORK tells the story of the first thirty-five years of Digital Equipment Corporation and 
illuminates the origins of its unique culture.  First person accounts from past and present members of the 
Digital community, industry associates, board members, and friends - plus a wealth of photos from 
Digital's archives - trace the company's evolution from the 1950s to present.
"...It's worth reading for its historical data not only about Digital's computers but their predecessors, the 
Whirlwind, the TX-O, and the TX-2, as well.  It serves as a first approach to the history of an important 
computer firm, and even more, as a fine example of engineers and managers at work.  There are some good 
stories here, well told."
- Steven Lubar, National Museum of American History, Smithsonian Institution
CONTENTS:  PART I. DIGITAL'S BEGINNINGS * Foundations of Interactive Computing * A Catalyst 
for Invention: Working at MIT's Digital Computer Lab * A Distinguished Lineage: Interactive Computing 
with the PDP-1 * PART II. MANAGING GROWTH * From the PDP to the VAX * Doing the Right 
Thing: Engineering at Digital * Coping with Growth: Manufacutirng at Digital * Buying Faith: Sales and 
Service at Digital * PART III. HOW DIGITAL WORKS * Networking * More Responsibility Than 
Authority * The Digital Organization * Milestones in Digital's History * Who's Who * Glossary of 
Computer Terminology

1992  paperbound  212 pages  55558-092-0  $19.95



The official guide to the writing of technical information for users of Digital hardware and software 
products.

THE DIGITAL STYLE GUIDE
Susan I. Schultz, Jennifer J. Darrow, Frank X. Kavanagh, and Marjorie J. Morse,
all of Digital Equipment Corporation

THE DIGITAL STYLE GUIDE is the official guide used by Digital and its third party partners to achieve 
consistency in text and on-line use information - and is the first such guide to deal with the special issues 
that arise in the creation of hardware and software computer documentation.  It is especially useful for 
application developers and their support staffs - especially project managers, engineers, writers and editors 
responsible for the preparation of technical user information for products that will be used in Digital 
environments for Digital-supported multivendor environments.  The GUIDE provides such technical 
communications with:
*	consistent guidelines for resolving common issues of style and usage
*	a unique word list that includes over 1700 symbols, terms, acronyms, and abbreviations unique to 
Digital and multivendor environments
*	alphabetized style and word list sections - for quick 
	look-up
*	a multiplatform approach that deals with many aspects of creating information for environments in 
which other computers and operating systems are in use

1993  paperbound  349 pages  55558-104-8  $24.95



PRODUCTION SOFTWARE THAT WORKS
a guide to the concurrent development of realtime manufacturing systems
John A. Behuniak and Iftikhar A. Ahmad, 
Digital Equipment Corporation
Ann M. Courtright, CC&S Associates

This useful reference addresses the key tasks that are integral to realtime software development in 
manufacturing plants: managing the design of the system, setting up and coordinating a development 
organization, and implementing tools for successful completion and management. Whether you're a new or 
experienced project manager, you'll discover useful advice and easy-to-follow procedures that help you cut 
time and costs - and stay competitive.  You'll find out how to use concurrent methodologies to create 
realtime systems in half the time it usually takes - resulting in systems that are more flexible, more 
predictable, and far less costly than 
systems developed sequentially.
1992  paperbound  204 pages  55558-083-1  $24.95



Direct from Digital's Information Design and Consulting Group.

THE DIGITAL TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION HANDBOOK
Susan I. Schultz, Jennifer J. Darrow, Frank X. Kavanagh, and Marjorie J. Morse, all of Digital Equipment 
Corporation

THE DIGITAL TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION HANDBOOK describes the process of developing and 
producing technical user information at Digital Equipment Corporation.  It:
*	discusses techniques for making user information more effective
*	covers the draft and review process, the production and distribution of printed and electronic media, 
archiving, indexing, testing for usability, and many other topics
*	provides quality assurance checklists, and contains a glossary and a bibliography of resources for 
technical communicators

1993  paperbound  319 pages  55558-103-X  $26.95



Bridges the transition from one operating system to another.

SOFTWARE IMPLEMENTATION TECHNIQUES
VMS, UNIX, OS, MS-DOS
Donald E. Merusi,
Pratt and Whitney Aircraft

Learn the in's and out's of four widely used operating systems - VMS, UNIX, OS/2, and MS-DOS - 
with this all-inclusive guide.  Written by an experienced computer systems support specialist, it examines 
scheduling, synchronization techniques, file management, memory management, and more - bridging the 
transition from one operating system to another.  The book helps you design applications that run on one 
or more of these systems or port existing applications to a new system.  You'll benefit from the many 
examples - provided as building blocks to more elaborate implementations - as well as roadmaps that 
review chapter contents, summaries, and reference lists for quick look-up of information.  A useful 
collection of algorithmic techniques and coding samples make this a comprehensive handbook for any 
programmer or software designer who wants to perform common functions among various operating 
systems  in a multivendor environment.
1992  paperbound  743 pages  55558-090-4  $39.95



Master the techniques.

THE ART OF TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION
Katherine Haramundanis, 
Digital Equipment Corporation

Technical writing is more like investigative reporting than like scientific writing, requiring practitioners to 
gather information rapidly, identify audiences, and use creativity and problem-solving skills.  Find out from 
an experienced technical documentation expert how to gather, dissect, and understand technical 
information- and how to organize and present it for the reader.  Complete with illustrations, glossary, and 
useful appendixes including resources as well as international documentation standards, the book covers 
planning and process, research techniques, use of graphics, audience analysis, the role of standards, and 
careers.
CONTENTS:  Technical Documentation Defined *  A Career in Technical Documentation * Precepts of 
Technical Documentation *  Techniques for Developing Technical Documentation *  Graphics in Technical 
Documentation *  Information Presentation in Technical Documentation *  Tools *  Computer Hardware *  
Appendixes * Glossary

1992  paperbound  267 pages  55558-080-7  $28.95



Benefit from Digital's secrets for overseas success.

DIGITAL GUIDE TO DEVELOPING INTERNATIONAL SOFTWARE
Corporate User Information Products Group
Digital Equipment Corporation

Already in use by hundreds of independent vendors and developers, here at your fingertips are the 
groundbreaking packaging and design guidelines that Digital recommends and uses for products headed 
overseas.  With examples throughout - from code fragments to large applications - this volume 
provides:
*	A plan for separating the core functions of a product from those that must be modified for 
international use
*	Special considerations for multibyte Asian languages or for environments where interfaces must 
accept input in several languages simultaneously
*	Guidelines for developers working in DECwindows, VMS, and the ULTRIX environments
*	Thirteen appendixes on the major language markets around the world

1991  paperbound  381 pages  55558-063-7  $28.95



A market "first."

DEVELOPING INTERNATIONAL USER INFORMATION
Scott Jones, Cynthia Kennelly, Claudia Mueller, Marcia Sweezey, Bill Thomas, and Lydia Velez,

For hi-tech companies operating in today's global economy, here is an indispensable guide that can help 
you reduce the expense and time demanded for translating your user information.  This unique book 
introduces you to Digital's success-proven methods for creating and packaging written, visual, and verbal 
user information that can be easily understood outside its country of origin and readily translated into other 
languages.  Find out how to adapt the writing and organizational practices of an industry leader to speed 
your own process along.
CONTENTS:  What Is International User Information? * Digital's International Product Model * Planning 
for Localization * Designing International User Information * Writing International User Information * 
Illustrating International User Information * Developing International Voice Communication Products * 
Developing International Training Materials * Packaging International User Information * Appendixes

1992  paperbound  214 pages  55558-084-X  $24.95



A valuable model for your own company.

THE DIGITAL GUIDE TO SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
Corporate User Information Products Group
Digital Equipment Corporation

Here is the first published description of the processes and practices, tools, and methods this industry giant 
uses to develop its software products.  This ≥shirt-sleeves≤ guide is packed with diagrams and tables that 
illustrate each step in the complex software development process.  You'll learn all about Digital's standard 
≥phase review process,≤ the role of teams and their leaders, how computer-assisted software engineering 
tools (CASE) work, and how to control a project while improving productivity and product quality.

1989  paperbound  239 pages  55558-035-1  $27.95



Enhance your hardware/software reliability.

RELIABLE COMPUTER SYSTEMS
DESIGN AND EVALUATION
SECOND EDITION
Daniel P. Siewiorek,
Carnegie-Mellon University
Robert S. Swarz, 
The MITRE Corporation

Enhancement of system reliability has been a major concern of computer users and designers - and this 
major revision of the 1982 classic meets users' continuing need for practical information on this pressing 
topic.  Included are case studies of reliable systems from manufacturers such as Tandem, Stratus, IBM, and 
Digital, as well as coverage of special systems such as the Galileo Orbiter fault protection system and 
AT&T telephone switching processors.  With over 480 technical diagrams, the book also covers:
*	Existing fault-avoidance, fault-detection, and redundancy techniques
*	In-depth analytical evaluations of compare and contrast techniques
*	Current software techniques plus detailed descriptions of hardware features
*	Examples illustrating application of testing methods and evaluation criteria
CONTENTS:  Fundamental Concepts * Faults and their Manifestations * Reliability and Availability 
Techniques * Maintainability and Testing Techniques * Evaluation Criteria * Financial Considerations * 
General Purpose Computing (VAX, IBM) * High-Availability Systems (AT&T, Tandem, Stratus) * Long 
Life Systems (Galileo) * Critical Computations (C.vmp, SIFT) * VAXft Series * Appendixes

1992  clothbound  908 pages  55558-075-0  $64.95



A working guide that helps you look at your system from the end-user's viewpoint.

THE HUMAN FACTOR
DESIGNING COMPUTER SYSTEMS FOR PEOPLE
Richard Rubinstein and Harry M. Hersh,
both of Digital Equipment Corporation

This practical guide and accompanying audiotape explain over 90 guidelines and considerations for 
designing, installing, and implementing systems that focus on human needs.  You'll discover unique 
approaches to human-computer interactions, backed up by pertinent research and realistic examples to 
illustrate the points.  The one-hour audiotape features in-depth interviews with the authors, who emphasize 
the human approach and offer you dynamic new ideas for building successful systems.

BOOK: 1984  paperbound  249 pages  932376-44-5  $29.95
TAPE:  1987  60 minutes  932376-44-6  $12.95
BOOK & TAPE:  932376-44-4  $39.95



Beyond its medical originsä

ABCs of MUMPS
An Introduction for Novice and Intermediate Programmers
Richard F. Walters,
University of California, Davis

This book will help programmers who want to take advantage of MUMPS and its unique features as a 
database management tool in business and academic environments.  You'll move logically through from an 
introduction to programming, to a presentation of MUMPS as a programming language which is both 
interpretive and a shared database manager.  Elements of the language, such as data types, syntax, command, 
and program creation, are covered in depth.  With numerous practical examples and exercises including 
answers.

1989  paperbound  303 pages  55558-017-3  $27.95



A complete overview of the Power PC processor - with information on the instruction set and examples 
of how to program it.

THE POWER PC
A PRACTICAL COMPANION
Steve Heath

The first new PCs from the joint IBM/Apple venture are about to appear.  Using the new Power PC RISC 
microprocessor designed by IBM, Motorola, and Apple, these new PCs will enable Apple Mac software to 
run on IBM PCs and vice versa.  This book is a practical guide to the new microprocessor.  It will be a 
valuable reference to engineers programming the new IBM and Apple PCs and to students and hobbyists 
with an interest in what is going on inside the computer.

CONTENTS
Programming Model * Addressing Modes * Instruction Set * Memory Model * Branches and Program Flow 
Changes * Multiple Instruction Issues * Exception Processing * Hardware Interface * Family Descriptions 
MC98601, MC98603 MC98610, and MC98620 * Instruction Set Detailed Description * The Macintosh 
Compatibility Module * 68000 and 88000 to Power PC Equivalent Instruction Set Chart * Hexadecimal to 
Decimal Conversion Table * Hexadecimal to OpCode Conversion Table Op Code to Hexadecimal Chart

March, 1994  paperbound  350 pages  
7506-1801-9  $24.95



Covers advanced window types and window management.

WINDOWS
ADVANCED PROGRAMMING 
AND DESIGN
Peter Morris

Anyone who is serious about Windows programming and requires a book that contains practical examples 
and applications will want this book.  The WINDOWS ADVANCED PROGRAMMING AND DESIGN 
GUIDE provides plenty to stimulate the mind.  Its an advanced look at Windows (both architectural and API 
levels) that provides many of those long sought after answers.  Topics covered include advanced dialog 
techniques and the dialog manager, genuine custom control building, advanced dynamic link library theory 
and practice, super/sub-classing and hooks, and much, much more.

CONTENTS
Introduction * The Shell * The Return of the Shell * Dialog Boxes * Cleaning Windows * Controls * DLLs * 
Debugging * Misc * Appendices * Index

1993  paperbound  900 pages  
7506-0636-3  $39.95



Practical emphasis and examples - using C++, Turbo Pascal and Visual Basic to demonstrate OOP 
principles.

OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING UNDER WINDOWS
A PRACTICAL HANDBOOK
Stephen Morris

Unlike most books on the subject, OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING UNDER WINDOWS uses 
practical examples to show how OOP techniques can be applied in the real world, with particular emphasis 
on programming under Windows.  This timely book will appeal to anyone intending to write programs and 
experienced programmers who are planning to move from structured methods to OOP methods.

CONTENTS
Introduction to OOP * Programming Languages * Windows * Menus * Scroll Bars * Controls * Mouse and 
Keyboards * Screen Printing * Memory Management * The Clipboard * Icons * Bitmaps and Datafiles * 
Sound and Timers * Disk File Access * Using Text * Help Files * Dynamic Link Libraries * Dynamic Data 
Exchange * Multiple Document Interface

April, 1994  paperbound  350 pages  
7506-1792-6  $29.95



At a practical level for experienced programmers - with an emphasis on actual problems and solutions.

STRUCTURED PROGRAM DESIGN
A DESIGNER'S HANDBOOK
David Nicol

This book for the experienced software programmer presents a rigorous methodology, based on Jackson 
Structured Design (JSD), and clearly demonstrates how it can be applied to a wide variety of data processing 
problems.  With a clear emphasis on the invaluable distinction between the software life cycle, 
STRUCTURED PROGRAM DESIGN will suit programmers striving to become competent software 
designers.

CONTENTS
Introduction * Steps of the Structured Method * System Diagram Networks Data Streams and their 
Deviation * Essential Principles * Notation and its Uses * Data Structures * Database Structures * 
Commonality and Design Optimization * Correspondence * Iteration in the Design Process * Program 
Structure Diagrams * Operations * Structure Text * Implementation (1) * Collating * Recognition 
Difficulties and Backtracking * Errors and Invalidity * Ordering Clashes and Inversion * Interleaving Clashes 
* Implementation (2)

April, 1994  paperbound  256 pages  
7506-1759-4  $29.95



A comprehensive, hands-on guide to Windows NT (New Technology)

WINDOWS NT
A PRACTICAL GUIDE
Arthur Tennick

This book provides a practical introduction that will enable the user to become proficient in actually using 
Windows NT.  It starts from basic principles for the beginner and leads effortlessly into areas of interest to 
the power user and system administrator.  Almost every aspect of Windows NT is explained in practical, 
concise text.  End users will find it useful in learning how to work with Windows and accessories.  Power 
users will learn the ins and outs of Control panel, OLE, and workgroups.  Administrators can come to grips 
with User Manager and Event Viewer.

CONTENTS
Background * Hardware Requirements * Installation of NT * Installation of Hardware and Drivers * NT Help * 
Program Manager * File Manager * Print Manager * Mail * Schedule * Control Panel * NT Command 
Prompt * OLE and Multimedia * Troubleshooting NT

April, 1994  paperbound  350 pages  
7506-0852-8  $24.95



Explains how viruses function and how to combat them, and evaluates leading anti-virus software
DR. SOLOMON'S 
PC ANTI-VIRUS BOOK
Tim Kay
Alan Solomon

The number of PC viruses is now in the range of 2500.  How does the average PC user or major company 
prevent massive data loss from virus attack?  This comprehensive guide to PC viruses provides the answers 
and gives solid advice on preventative measures.  It sets out to explain how PC viruses work and how to 
guard against a viral attack.  And for the user unlucky enough to come across an infected PC, there is ample 
coverage of the steps to take in combating such a dilemma.  Leading anti-virus software is exhaustively 
evaluated.

CONTENTS
Glossary * History of the PC Virus * Anti-Virus Software * Review of Commercial AVs * Anti-Virus 
Procedures * Virus Clean-up Procedures * Virus Quick Reference Chart * Specific Viruses

1994  paperbound  304 pages  
7506-1614-8  $24.95



Practical information for understanding the basic technology of PC networks.

EFFECTIVE PC NETWORKING
Steve Heath

With networks frequently seen as a panacea for most office automation problems, it is essential to 
understand the basic technology used within such systems and its limitations and advantages.  EFFECTIVE 
PC NETWORKING describes this technology used within most PC networks and gives a lot of practical 
advice on how to avoid the problems and pitfalls.

CONTENTS
Preface * Acknowledgments * Why Network? * Network Hardware * Network Software * Ethernet * Token 
Ring * Token Bus and Other Systems * Other Connections * Planning a Network * Using Networks * 
Network Management * Common Faults * Configuring IBM PCs * Index

1993  paperbound  256 pages 
7506-1136-7  $32.95



Provides numerous tips to boost productivity - 
valuable to DOS users as well.

GETTING THE JOB DONE WITH WORDPERFECT FOR WINDOWS
Andrew-Glyn Smail

The majority of books written on WordPerfect focus on the program rather than on your work; on the tool 
rather than the job.  GETTING THE JOB DONE WITH WORDPERFECT FOR WINDOWS is for the 
user whose job is to produce office documents in a business or other professional environment and is 
already familiar with the basis of word processing.  It explains program functions within the context of 
recognizable tasks and jobs, such as the creation of memos and letters.  It is based on Windows 3.1 and 
WordPerfect for Windows but DOS users of WordPerfect will also find this book a valuable source.

CONTENTS
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS * PART I. THE BIG PICTURE * Picture * The Four Ps * Setting Up Shop * 
PART 2. THE TASKS * Basic Tasks * Data Exchange * Automating the Works * PART 3. THE JOBS * 
Common Office Jobs * Mailshots * Reports * Glossary * Index

1993  paperbound  443 pages  
7506-0541-3  $39.95



Practical help for learning the basics of - and becoming proficient in - UNIX.

UNIX BY EXAMPLE
THE EASY WAY TO LEARN UNIX
P.K. McBride

This book teaches the student and new business user of UNIX the concepts and use of commands by fully 
worked practical examples.  By working through these examples, the reader will gain the understanding and 
confidence needed to become a proficient UNIX user.  No previous UNIX experience or any computer 
system is required to make full use of this book.

CONTENTS
Introduction * You and UNIX * An Hour with UNIX * Editing Text with vi * Exploring Directories * File 
Management * Working with the System * Working with Others * Help! * The Bourne Shell * The C Shell * 
Finding Files * Text File Processing * Data File Processing * File Maintenance * Miscellaneous Utilities * 
Shell Programming * Quick Reference * Index

1993  paperbound  240 pages  
7506-0637-1  $27.50



In-depth information on the programming languages of 
HyperCard and Plus.
HYPERTALK AND HYPERTEXT
PROGRAMMING THE GRAPHIC INTERFACE IN THE MACINTOSH AND WINDOWS 
ENVIRONMENT WITH HYPERCARD 2 PLUS
Tony Stanley

This book provides in-depth information on HyperTalk and PPL, the programming languages of HyperCard 
and Plus.  In addition to the possibility of creating applications that can be used without modification with 
Windows 3 on IBM compatibles and on the Macintosh, the approach followed makes it possible to explore 
the basics of object-oriented programming in graphical environments and is well suited to act as an 
introduction to the graphical environment for programmers skilled in languages such as Pascal or C.

CONTENTS
Introduction * Dumb Waiters * Containers and Operators * Objects and their Properties * Friendliness * 
Control Structures * Ideas for HyperText * Dealing with Text * Messages, Commands and Functions * 
Public Relations * With and Without HyperCard * Structures and Strategies * Menus, Windows and Sounds 
* Conclusion * Glossary * Appendix: ASII Codes * Index

1992  paperbound  475 pages  
7506-0500-6  $49.95



 For quality practitioners in all types of organizations - addresses each requirement of each clause.
ISO 9000 QUALITY SYSTEMS HANDBOOK
David Hoyle

Written with the busy manager in mind, the ISO 9000 QUALITY SYSTEMS HANDBOOK is a manual 
for those managing, designing, implementing, auditing, or assessing quality systems that aim to meet the 
Standard.  In this book the mysteries of how to become and remain accredited to the quality system standard 
are solved.  The approach taken is appropriate for quality practitioners of all types in any organization.  
Unlike other guides, this book addresses each individual requirement of each clause.  One by one the 
purpose of the requirements is explained, and guidance in meeting them is offered.

CONTENTS
Preparing for ISO 9000 Registration * Satisfying ISO 9000 Requirements * Management Responsibility * 
Quality System * Contract Review * Design Control * Document Control * Purchasing * Purchaser Supplied 
Product * Product Identification and Traceability * Process Control * Inspection and Testing * Inspection, 
Measuring and Test Equipment * Inspection and Test Status * Control of Nonconforming Product * 
Corrective Action * Handling, Storage, Packaging, and Delivery * Quality Records * Internal Quality Audits 
* Training * Servicing * Statistical Techniques * Glossary of Terms * Procedures Required by ISO 9000 * 
Bibliography * Index of Related Standards * Relationship of Clauses

1994  paperbound  420 pages  
7506-1690-3  $29.95



Covers a wide range of knowledge processing technologies - case studies illustrate practical commercial 
application.

KNOWLEDGE PROCESSING AND APPLIED ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Soumitra Dutta

This practical book provides an explanation of AI concepts and techniques.  It shows students how they can 
solve business problems with AI technologies, and analyze the strategic impact of AI technology on 
organizations.

CONTENTS
Knowledge Acquisition and Knowledge Representation * Inference Techniques and Architectures * Man-
machine Interfaces * Reasoning with Uncertainty and Imprecision * Machine Learning * Neutral Networks 
and Parallel Models of Intelligence * Software Engineering of AI Systems * Strategic Impact on 
Organizations * The AI Market

1993  paperbound  352 pages  
7506-1612-1  $34.95


AUTHOR/TITLE INDEX

Anagnostopoulos * VAX/VMS: Writing Real 
Programs in DCL	6
Arms * Campus Strategies for Libraries and 
Electronic Information.	11
Asente/Swick * X Window System Toolkit	14
Behuniak et al. * Production Software That Works	18
Bourne * UNIX for VMS Users	5
Bowersox et al. * Logistical Excellence	17
Brain * Motif Programming	14
Brunner * VAX Architecture Reference Manual, 
2nd ed.	8
Champine * MIT Project Athena 	12
da Cruz * Kermit	10
da Cruz & Gianone * Using C-Kermit	9
Darnton & Giacoletto * Information in the Enterprise	16
Davis * VaxCluster Principles	4
de Klerk * Writing VAX/VMS Applications 
Using Pascal	7
Digital * Digital Dictionary, 2nd ed.	6
Digital * Digital Guide to Developing International Software	19
Digital * Digital Guide to Software Development	19
Dutta * Knowledge Processing and Applied Artificial Intelligence	22
Gianone * Using MS-DOS Kermit, 2nd ed.	 10
Goldenberg & Kenah * VAX/VMS Internals and 
Data Structures	8
Goldenberg & Saravanan * OpenVMS AXP Internals and Data Structures	2
Goldenberg & Saravanan * VMS for Alpha Platforms 	Internals and Data Structures	6
Grenier & Metes * Enterprise Networking	16
Haramundanis * Art of Technical Documentation	19
Heath * Effective PC Networking	23
Heath * The Power PC	22
Hobbs & England * Digital's CDD/Repository	4
Hobbs & England * Rdb/VMS	6
Hoyle * ISO 9000 Quality Systems Handbook	24
Israel & Fortune * X Window System Server	13
Jones et al. * Developing International User 
Information	19
Kay & Solomon * Dr. Solomon's PC Anti-Virus Book	21
Kelly * Practical Knowledge Engineering	15
LaQuey * User's Directory of Computer Networks	11
Lawless & Miller * Understanding CLOS	15
Laverdure et al * NAS Architecture Reference Manual	10
Levy & Eckhouse * Computer Prog. and Architecture, 2nd ed.	8
Luber * Solving Business Problems with MRP II	17
Martin & Leben * DECnet Phase V	11
Martin & Leben * NAS	9
McBride * UNIX by Example	24
McCoy * VMS File System Internals	8
McNamara * Technical Aspects of Data Communi-
cation, 3rd ed.	12
McNamara * Local Area Networks	12
Merusi * Software Implementation Techniques	18
Michael et al * FDDI	11
Miller * VAX/VMS Operating System Concepts	7
Moore & Sawey * BITNET for VMS Users	10
Morris * Object Oriented Programming Under  
Windows	23
Morris * Windows	21
Nicol * Structured Program Design	23
Pearson * Digital at Work	17
Peters & Holmay * VMS User's Guide	7
Quarterman * Matrix	12
Redmond * ALL-IN-1: Managing and Programming
V3.0	5
Redmond * ALL-IN-1: A Technical Odyssey	5
Redmond * Working with TeamLinks	9
Rhoton * ALL-IN-1: Integrating Applications in V3.0	5
Rost * X and Motif Quick Reference Guide, 2nd ed.	13
Rubinstein & Hersh * Human Factor	20
Savage * Fifth Generation Management	16
Sawey & Stokes * Beginner's Guide to VAX/VMS Utilities and Applications, 2nd ed.	7
Scheifler et al. * X Window System, 3rd ed.	14
Schultz et al * The Digital Style Guide	18
Schultz et al * The Digital Technical Documentation Handbook	18
Sherlock * Using DecWindows Motif for OpenVMS	13
Siewiorek & Swarz * Reliable Computer Systems,
2nd ed.	20
Sites * Alpha Architecture Reference Manual	4
Smail * Getting the Job Done with WordPerfect for Windows	22
Stanley * HyperTalk and HyperText	24
Steele * Common Lisp, 2nd ed.	15
Tennick * Windows NT	21
Walters * ABCs of MUMPS	20



TITLE/AUTHOR INDEX

ABCs of MUMPS * Walters	20
ALL-IN-1: Managing and Programming in V3.0 * Redmond	5
ALL-IN-1: A Technical Odyssey * Redmond	5
ALL-IN-1: Integrating Applications in V3.0 * Rhoton	5
Alpha Architecture Reference Manual * Sites	4
Art of Technical Documentation * Haramundanis	19
Beginner's Guide to VAX/VMS Utilities and 
Applications, 2nd ed. * Sawey & Stokes	7
BITNET for VMS Users * Moore & Sawey	10
Campus Strategies for Libraries and Electronic Information * Arms	11
Common Lisp, 2nd ed. * Steele	15
Computer Programming and Architecture, 2nd ed. * Levy & Eckhouse	8
DECnet Phase V * Martin & Leben	11
Developing International User Information * 
Jones et al.	19
Digital at Work * Pearson	17
Digital Dictionary, 2nd ed. * Digital	6
Digital Guide to Developing International Software * Digital	19
Digital Guide to Software Development * Digital	19
The Digital Style Guide * Schultz et al	18
The Digital Technical Documentation Handbook *
Schultz et al	18
Digital's CDD/Repository * Hobbs & England	4
Dr. Solomon's PC Anti-Virus Book * Kay & Solomon	21
Effective PC Networking * Heath	23
Enterprise Networking * Grenier & Metes	16
FDDI * Michael et al	11
Fifth Generation Management * Savage	16
Getting the Job Done with WordPerfect for Windows * Smail	22
Human Factor * Rubinstein & Hersh	20
HyperTalk and HyperText * Stanley	24
Information in the Enterprise * Darnton & Giacoletto	16
ISO 9000 Quality Systems Handbook * Hoyle	24
Kermit * da Cruz	10
Knowledge Processing and Applied Artificial 
Intelligence * Dutta	22
Local Area Networks * McNamara	12
Logistical Excellence * Bowersox et al.	17
Matrix * Quarterman	12
MIT Project Athena  * Champine	12
Motif Programming * Brain	14
NAS * Martin & Leben	9
NAS Architecture Reference Manual * Laverdure et al	10
Object Oriented Programming Under Windows * 
Morris	23
OpenVMS AXP Internals and Data Structures  * Goldenberg & Saravanan	2
The Power PC * Heath	22
Practical Knowledge Engineering * Kelly	15
Production Software That Works * Behuniak et al.	18
Rdb/VMS * Hobbs & England	6
Reliable Computer Systems, 2nd ed. * Siewiorek 
& Swarz	20
Software Implementation Techniques * Merusi	18
Solving Business Problems with MRP II * Luber	17
Structured Program Design * Nicol	23
Technical Aspects of Data Communication, 3rd ed. * McNamara	12
Understanding CLOS * Lawless & Miller	15
UNIX by Example * McBride	24
UNIX for VMS Users * Bourne	5
User's Directory of Computer Networks * LaQuey	11
Using MS-DOS Kermit, 2nd ed. * Gianone	10
Using C-Kermit * da Cruz & Gianone	9
Using DecWindows Motif for OpenVMS * Sherlock	13
VAX Architecture Reference Manual, 2nd ed. * 
Brunner	8
VaxCluster Principles * Davis	4
VAX/VMS Internals and Data Structures * 
Goldenberg & Kenah	8
VAX/VMS Operating System Concepts * Miller	7
VAX/VMS: Writing Real Programs in DCL * Anagnostopoulos	6
VMS File System Internals * McCoy	8
VMS for Alpha Platforms Internals and Data 
Structures * Goldenberg & Saravanan	6
VMS User's Guide * Peters & Holmay	7
Windows NT * Tennick	21
Working with Teamlinks * Redmond	9
Writing VAX/VMS Applications Using Pascal * 
de Klerk	7
X and Motif Quick Reference Guide, 2nd ed. * Rost	13
X Window System Server * Israel & Fortune	13
X Window System, 3rd ed. * Scheifler et al.	14
X Window System Toolkit * Asente & Swick	2



ORDER FORM

Digital Press

HOW TO ORDER 
DIGITAL PRESS BOOKS
By phone: 
	Toll-FREE 800-366-BOOK (2665)
	(8:30 AM to 7:30 PM, ET)
By fax:  
	617-438-1479	Beginning May 9, 1994
	(24 hours a day)	617-933-6333
By mail:
	Digital Press	Beginning May 9, 1994
	80 Montvale Ave.	225 Wildwood St.
	Stoneham, MA 02180	Woburn, MA 01801


CUSTOMER CONTACT
Name	
Phone	
BILL TO:
Company	
Dept/Attn	
Street	
City/State/Zip	


* Free shipping/handling on all orders of two or more books. Just tell the operator your catalog number 
(see below).

Help us speed your order along
*	Check, money order, MasterCard, VISA, and AMEX  accepted.  You must include one of these, or 
a corporate/institutional purchase order.
*	Please include $3.75 for shipping for any single-book purchase.  For orders placed with purchase 
order, handling will be added to the invoice.
*	Please include all applicable state, county, and local sales, use, and other taxes, or include a tax-
exempt identification number.  All prices are in U.S. dollars and are subject to change.
DIGITAL PRESS 100% Money-Back 
Guarantee
If, for any reason, you are not completely satisfied with the Digital Press books you have ordered, return 
them within 30 days for full credit.
SHIP TO:
Company	
Dept/Attn	
Street	
City/State/Zip	
PAYMENT METHOD:

n Charge my      n MasterCard        n VISA        n AMEX
Card # _________________________________________Expires_______
Cardholder name______________________________________________
Signature____________________________________________________Telephone 
number_____________________________________________
n Check or money order enclosed (payable to Digital Press)
n Purchase order attached #____________________________________

Canadian customers: We accept payment in Canadian dollars  Please convert the listed prices at the rate of 
Canadian $1.32: US $1.00.  Also, please include 7%GST.
				CATALOG #

QTY.	AUTHOR	TITLE	ISBN	PRICE	TOTAL

____	Anagnostopoulos 	VAX/VMS: Writing Real Programs in DCL	55558-023-8
	$29.95		
____	Arms 	Campus Strategies for Libraries and Electronic Info.	55558-036-X	$34.95		
____	Asente/Swick	X Window System Toolkit	55558-051-3	$44.95		
____	Behuniak et al. 	Production Software That Works	55558-083-1	$24.95		
____	Bourne 	UNIX for VMS Users	55558-034-3	$29.95		
____	Bowersox et al. 	Logistical Excellence	55558-087-4	$29.95		
____	Brain 	Motif Programming	55558-089-0	$29.95		
____	Brunner 	VAX Architecture Reference Manual, 2nd ed.	55558-057-2	$49.95
		
____	Champine 	MIT Project Athena 	55558-072-6	$28.95		
____	da Cruz 	Kermit	932376-88-6	$29.95		
____	da Cruz 	Using C-Kermit	55558-108-0	$34.95		
____	Darnton & Giacoletto 	Information in the Enterprise	55558-091-2	$34.95		
____	Davis 	VaxCluster Principles	55558-112-9	$49.95		
____	de Klerk 	Writing VAX/VMS Applications Using Pascal	55558-067-X	$39.95
		
____	Digital 	Digital Dictionary, 2nd ed.	932376-82-7	$29.95		
____	Digital 	Digital Guide to Developing International Software	55558-063-7	$28.95		
____	Digital 	Digital Guide to Software Development	55558-035-1	$27.95		
____	Dutta 	Knowledge Processing & Applied Artificial Intelligence	7506-1612-1	$34.95
		
____	Gianone 	Using MS-DOS Kermit, 2nd ed.	55558-082-3	$34.95		
Continued on reverse...
QTY.	AUTHOR	TITLE	ISBN	PRICE	TOTAL

____	Goldenberg/Saravanan 	Open VMS AXP Internals and Data Structures.	55558-120-X
	$120.00		
____	Goldenberg & Kenah 	VAX/VMS Internals and Data Structures	55558-059-9	$124.95
		
____	Goldenberg & Saravanan 	VMS for Alpha Platforms, Volume 1	55558-095-5	$30.00
		
____	Goldenberg & Saravanan 	VMS for Alpha Platforms, Volume 2	55558-105-6	$30.00
		
____	Goldenberg & Saravanan 	VMS for Alpha Platforms, Volume 3	55558-109-9	$30.00
		
____	Grenier & Metes 	Enterprise Networking	55558-074-2	$29.95		
____	Haramundanis 	Art of Technical Documentation	55558-080-7	$28.95		
____	Heath 	Effective PC Networking	7506-1136-7	$32.95		
____	Heath 	The Power PC	7506-1801-9	$24.95		
____	Hobbs & England 	Digital's CDD/Repository	55558-113-7	$34.95		
____	Hobbs & England 	Rdb/VMS	55558-073-4	$34.95		
____	Hoyle 	ISO 9000 Quality Systems Handbook	7506-1690-3	$29.95		
____	Israel & Fortune 	X Window System Server	55558-096-3	$45.95		
____	Jones et al. 	Developing International User Information	55558-084-X	$24.95		
____	Kay & Solomon 	Dr. Solomon's PC Anti-Virus Book	7506-1614-8	$24.95
		
____	Kelly 	Practical Knowledge Engineering	55558-070-X	$28.95		
____	LaQuey 	User's Directory of Computer Networks	55558-047-5	$35.95		
____	Lawless & Miller 	Understanding CLOS	55558-064-5	$26.95		
____	Laverdure et al 	NAS Architecture Reference Manual	55558-115-3	$34.95		
____	Levy & Eckhouse 	Computer Prog. and Architecture, 2nd ed.	55558-015-7	$39.95
		
____	Luber 	Solving Business Problems with MRP II	55558-058-0	$35.95		
____	Martin & Leben 	DECnet Phase V	55558-076-9	$49.95		
____	Martin & Leben 	NAS	55558-117-X	$34.95		
____	McBride 	UNIX by Example	7506-0637-1	$27.50		
____	McCoy 	VMS File System Internals	55558-056-4	$49.95		
____	McNamara 	Technical Aspects of Data Communi-cation, 3rd ed.	55558-111-0	$32.00
		
____	McNamara 	Local Area Networks	932376-79-7	$29.00		
____	Merusi 	Software Implementation Techniques	55558-090-4	$39.95		
____	Michael et al 	FDDI	55558-093-9	$17.95		
____	Miller 	VAX/VMS Operating System Concepts	55558-065-3	$44.95		
____	Moore & Sawey 	BITNET for VMS Users	55558-094-7	$25.95		
____	Morris 	Object Oriented Programming Under Windows	7506-1792-6	$29.95	
	____
____	Morris 	Windows	7506-0636-3	$39.95		
____	Nicol 	Structured Program Design	7506-1759-4	$29.95		
____	Pearson 	Digital at Work	55558-092-0	$19.95		
____	Peters & Holmay 	VMS User's Guide	55558-014-9	$29.95		
____	Quarterman 	Matrix	55558-033-5	$49.95		
____	Redmond 	ALL-IN-1: Managing and ProgrammingV3.0	55558-101-3	$52.95
		
____	Redmond 	ALL-IN-1: A Technical Odyssey	55558-086-6	$44.95		
____	Redmond 	Working with TeamLinks	55558-116-1	$44.95		
____	Rhoton 	ALL-IN-1: Integrating Applications in V3.0	55558-102-1	$52.95
		
____	Rost 	X and Motif Quick Reference Guide, 2nd ed.	55558-118-8	$24.95		
____	Rubinstein & Hersh 	Human Factor, Book Only	932376-44-5	$29.95		
____	Rubinstein & Hersh 	Human Factor, Tape Only	932376-44-6	$12.95		
____	Rubinstein & Hersh 	Human Factor, Book and Tape	932376-44-4	$39.95		
____	Savage 	Fifth Generation Management	55558-037-8	$29.95		
____	Sawey & Stokes 	Beginner's Guide to VAX/VMS Utils & Apps, 2nd ed.	55558-
066-1	$27.95		
____	Scheifler et al. 	X Window System, 3rd ed.	55558-088-2	$49.95		
____	Schultz et al 	The Digital Style Guide	55558-104-8	$24.95		
____	Schultz et al 	The Digital Technical Documentation Handbook	55558-103-X	$26.95
		
____	Sherlock 	Using DecWindows Motif for VMS	55558-114-5	$34.95		
____	Siewiorek & Swarz 	Reliable Computer Systems, 2nd ed.	55558-075-0	$64.95
		
____	Sites 	Alpha Architecture Reference Manual	55558-098-X	$34.95		
____	Smail 	Getting the Job Done with WordPerfect for Windows	7506-0541-3	$39.95
		
____	Stanley 	HyperTalk and HyperText	7506-0500-6	$49.95		
____	Steele 	Common Lisp, 2nd ed.	55558-041-6	$39.95		
____	Tennick 	Windows NT	0-7506-0852-8	$24.95		
____	Walters 	ABCs of MUMPS	1-55558-017-3	$27.95		

					TOTAL		


